Equal-cost multi-path routing (ECMP) is a routing strategy where next-hop packet forwarding to a single
destination can occur over multiple "best paths" which tie for top place in routing metric calculations.

Various routing protocols, including Open Shortest Path First (OSPF), Intermediate System to Intermediate
System (ISIS), Enhanced Interior Gateway RoutingProtocol (EIGRP), and Border GatewayProtocol (BGP)
allow ECMP routing

Before the ECMP algorithm can distribute packets over parallel links, routing protocols such as BGP must first be convinced to use multiple links in parallel. 
There are three ways BGP and ECMP can work together:
	Bundling the links at the Ethernet level, using IEEE 802.3ad or EtherChannel
	With one BGP session over multiple links using loopback addresses
	With a separate BGP session over each of the parallel links

Per-packet load balancing causes reordering. 
In theory, that’s fine, as TCP will simply buffer the reordered packets and deliver the data inside to the receiving application in the right order. 
However, receiving packets out of order makes TCP think there was packet loss, so it retransmits packets and slows down its transmission rate. 
To avoid such issues, routers and switches work hard to make sure that all packets that belong to the same TCP session (or UDP flow) are transmitted over the same link. 
Of course this in turn has the downside that a single TCP session can only make use of one link; thus ECMP is only useful if the traffic consists of multiple TCP sessions.

ECMP Per-Flow Load Balancing
Load balancing is a forwarding mechanism that distributes traffic over multiple links based on certain
parameters. ECMP Per-Flow Load Balancing distributes packets across multiple links based on Layer 3
routing information. If the router discovers multiple paths to a destination, the routing table is updated with
multiple entries for that destination. Per-flow load balancing allows the router to use multiple paths to achieve
load sharing across multiple source-destination host pairs. Packets for a given source-destination host pair
are guaranteed to take the same path, even if multiple paths are available. Traffic streams destined for different
pairs tend to take different paths.

