Port Security
	MAC Limiting
		MAC address limit
		MAC move limit
			Automatic recovery for MAC limiting
		Persistent MAC learning
			Limit MAC addresses allowed on port while still allowing the interface to dynamically learn a specified number of MAC addresses
	DHCP
		DHCPDiscover (broadcast)
		DHCPOffer (unicast)
		DHCPRequest (broadcast)
		DHCPAck (unicast)
	DHCP snooping
		builds and maintains a database of valid IP addresses assigned to downstream network devices by a trusted DHCP server.
		DHCP snooping includes support for DHCP option 82 - used to identify the switch and port to which the client is attached
	Dynamic ARP inspection
		- intercepts ARP packets on untrusted ports and validates them against DHCP snooping database
		ARP Spoofing
		- man-in-the-middle attack that spoofs the MAC address of another networking device such as a gateway or server
	IP address spoofing
		IP source guard - intercepts IP packets on untrusted ports and validates them against DHCP snooping database

Device security
	Storm control: when level is exceeded, the switch can either drop offending traffic (default) or shut down the interface
		Automatic recovery
	Firewall filters (ACLs)
		Port-based - applied to L2 switch ports
		VLAN-based - applied to L2 VLANs
		Router-based - applied to L3 routed interfaces
	
HA
	802.3ad
	LACP
	GRES
	NSR
	Nonstop bridging
	NSSU/ISSU
	
	Virtual chassis
	LLDP - topology discovery
	
ERPS
	to provide sub-50 ms, loop-free protection

VLANs
	Voice VLAN
		Feature enables access ports to accept both untagged (data) and tagged (voice) traffic
	Native VLAN
	Routed VLAN interfaces

Access control
	Potential risks:
		Rogue switch
		Rogue wireless device
		Unauthorized user
	RADIUS
		Manages single database of users
		Traffic flow:
			1. End user to switch: connection request
			2. Switch to RADIUS server: auth request
			3. RADIUS server: user lookup
			4. RADIUS to switch: Authentication accepted or rejected
			5. Switch to end user: Connection accepted or rejected
		FreeRADIUS
	802.1x
		IEEE standard for access control and authentication
		Defines a method to authenticate and associate users with network access rights based on assigned profile and VLAN
		Elements: 802.1x host (supplicant), switch (authenticator), RADIUS server (authentication server)
		EAP:
			802.1x works in conjunction with EAP (IETF standard) to provide port-based NAC:
				EAP traffic (messages) between end user and switch - Supplicant sends and responds to EAP over LAN (EAPOL) messages
				RADIUS traffic (messages) between switch and RADIUS server
			Supplicant modes:
				Single (default): first supplicant authenticates, all others access without authentication
				Single-secure: switch permits access for a single supplicant, access for all others is denied
				Multiple: each supplicant is authenticated individually
		Periodic reauthentication
		Guest VLAN - for client not supporting auth
		Dynamic VLAN assignment, dynamic firewall filters - RADIUS server return vendor-specific attributes (VSA) to the switch
		Server fail fallback options:
			Permit
			Deny
			Move - associate device with the specified VLAN
			Sustain - maintains authentication for devices that already have LAN access and denies unauthenticated devices
		Static MAC bypass - exclusion list - commonly used with printers and IP phones
	MAC RADIUS
		- uses RADIUS database to authenticate devices not 802.1x-enabled
		Note that the delay when determining whether a device is 802.1X enabled can take up to 90 seconds.
	Captive portal
		Redirects web browser requests to a login page
		Authentication whitelist - skip authentication check for specific MACs - for printers and IP phones
		
		
VRRP
	https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3768
	The virtual router MAC address associated with a virtual router is an
	IEEE 802 MAC Address in the following format:
      00-00-5E-00-01-{VRID} (in hex in internet standard bit-order)
	The purpose of the VRRP packet is to communicate to all VRRP routers the 
		priority and the state of the Master router associated with the Virtual Router ID.
	VRRP packets are sent encapsulated in IP packets.  They are sent to the IPv4 multicast address assigned to VRRP: 224.0.0.18
	The TTL MUST be set to 255.  A VRRP router receiving a packet with the TTL not equal to 255 MUST discard the packet.
	A Backup router will not attempt to preempt the Master unless it has higher priority.
	The priority value for the VRRP router that owns the IP address(es) associated with the virtual router MUST be 255 (decimal).
	The default priority value for VRRP routers backing up a virtual router is 100 (decimal).
	The priority value zero (0) has special meaning indicating that the current Master has stopped participating in VRRP.  
		This is used to trigger Backup routers to quickly transition to Master without having to wait for the current Master to timeout.
	