MPLS FAQ from Cisco - https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/multiprotocol-label-switching-mpls/mpls/4649-mpls-faq-4649.html

MPLS shim header - 32 bit:
  Label - 20 bit
  Traffic class (formerly Experimental bits) - 3 bit
  Bottom-of-stack - 1 bit. Set to 1 if this is the last label before the payload
  TTL - 8 bit. By default IP TTL is copied.

Reserved labels:
  0 - IPv4 Explicit NULL. Label stack must be popped, and the packet forwarding must be based on the IPv4 header. 
    This helps to keep Exp bits safe until the egress router. It is used in MPLS based QoS
  1 - Router Alert
  2 - IPv6 Explicit NULL. Label stack must be popped, and the packet forwarding must be based on the IPv6 header.
  3 - Implicit NULL. Internal label, only used withing signaling protocols (MPLS frames are never sent with label value 3).
    Egress LSR initially send a special label value of 3 to “next-to-last LSR” (called the penultimate LSR). 
    When an LSR receives an MPLS header in which the label is set to 3, it always POPs the header i.e., it removes the top label.

LDP
  Follows best IGP path, so does not allow traffic engineering
  Now used mainly by applications, requiring full mesh of LSP between routers
  FEC - group of packets that should be forwarded in the same way (e.g. going to the same router). LDP router advertises one label for FEC.
  LDP message types:
    Discovery: Basic (224.0.0.2, UDP port 646); Extended (Specific address, UDP port 646)
    Session: TCP session initiated by the node with the higher IP address
    Advertisement
    Notification
  LDP tunneling (targeted LDP)
    Combines RSVP traffic engineering with LDP label distribution
      Targeted LDP session is established between RSVP endpoints
      Forwarding will use label stacking
  Graceful restart
    Maintains forwarding state during router restart or reboot. Requires helper mode on adjacent routers.
  
RSVP
  Allows traffic engineering, reserving bandwidth along the path
  Uses IP as its network layer (protocol number 46)
  Message types:
    Path: create or periodic refresh for an LSP
    Resv: reserve resources
    PathTear: remove path and corresponding reservation
    ResvTear: remove reservation
    PathErr: error message sent upstream to sender
    ResvErr: error message sent downstream
  
  RSVP LSP establishment:
    Ingress router sends PATH message; the PATH message is forwarded towards egress, creating a state on every router as it traverses
    Once the PATH message reaches the egress LSR, a RESV message, which includes the allocated label, is sent back towards the ingress.
      Each transit router, receiving a RESV message, allocates a new local label, relay it upstream, and install new entry in the LIB.
        E.g. egress LSR assigns label 3 (asks the PHP remove the label), PHP asks previous router to use label 5432 to reach him...
        
    Some objects in the PATH messag:
      Session ID
      Session attributes: priority, preemtion, link/node protection
      Sender T_Spec: requested bandwidth reservation
      RSVP hop: the previous hop the PATH message traversed
      Label request: request for label binding
      Record route (RRO): nodes, traversed by the LSP. 
        Every node adds the address of the interface on which the PATH message has been received. This address becomes the 
          MPLS next-hop in the RESV step
        If a node receives a PATH messagee with one of its local addresses in the RRO, it sends back a PathErr message, indicating
          "Routing Loop Detected"
      Explicit route object (ERO): specify the path the LSP should take (e.g. {R7 LOOSE, R4 STRICT})
    Objects, includes in the RESV message:
      Session ID
      Label: label, allocated by the previous hop
      STYLE: reservation style (FF, SE)
      Record route (RRO): nodes and interfaces traversed. 
      RSVP-hop: the IP address of the previous hop
      
    For faster LSP failure detection use BFD
    RSVP graceful restart maintains forwarding state during a router restart or reboot. Requires helper mode in adjacent nodes.
      
      
