OSPF packet types:
  Hello: Sent by each router to form and maintain adjacencies with its neighbors.
  Database description: Used during the adjacency formation. Contains the header information for the contents of the LSDB on the router.
  Link-state request: Used by the router to request an updated copy of a neighbor’s LSA.
  Link-state update: Used by the router to advertise LSAs into the network. Link-State update packets carry one or more LSAs.
  Link-state acknowledgment: Used by the router to ensure the reliable flooding of LSAs throughout the network.

LSA Types
  Type 1 (Router LSA): Sent by each router. Describes state and cost of the router's interfaces. Area scope.
    Link types:
      Point-to-Point
      Transit (connection to a broadcast segment)
      Stub (when a subnet does not connect to any ospf neighbors). Occurs for loopback, passive (and point-to-point) interfaces
      Virtual link - between an ABR connected to Area 0 and an ABR that is not connected to Area 0.
  Type 2 (Network LSA): Sent by the DR on the broadcast network. Describes all routers attached. Area scope. 
    Consists of network mask and attached router.
  Types 3 and Type 4 (Summary LSA): Sent by an ABR to describe routes or other information from one area into another.
    Type 3 - Originated by ABRs; describes networks external to the area; area scope.
    Type 4 - Originated by ABRs; describes ASBRs external to the area; area scope.
  Type 5 (AS external LSA): Sent by an ASBR to describe routes external to the OSPF domain. 
    Domain scope.
  Type 7 (NSSA LSA): Sent by an ASBR in a not-so-stubby area (NSSA) to describe routes external to the OSPF domain. 
    Area scope. Translated into Type 5 by the ABR. When multiple ABRs exist, the ABR with the highest RID performs the translation.
  Type 9, 10 (Opaque LSAs): 
    Type 9 - Junos uses for graceful restart. Link-local scope.
    Type 10 - Junos uses for MPLS traffic engineering. Area scope.

OSPF External routes
	E1 or External Type Routes – cost of the external metric plus the internal cost within OSPF to reach that network.
	E2 or External Type2 Routes (default) – The cost will always be the external metric (no notice of the internal cost to reach that network)
	
	If an E1 and E2 route exist to the same destination the E1 route will always be preferred irrespective of the metric.
	If two external type 2 routes exist with the same metric to the same destination, the route with the lowest metric to the ASBRwill be used. 

OSPFv3
	The protocol runs per link rather than per subnet
	Router and network LSAs do not carry prefix information
	Two new LSA types: link-LSA and intra-area-prefix-LSA
	Flooding scopes are link-local area and AS
	Link-local addresses are used for all neighbor exchanges except virtual links
	Two new option bits are included: R and V6

OSPF Metrics
  Routers can disagree about the cost on a network link. Can result in asymmetric routing. 
  Overload
    Sets metric to 65535 in router LSA on all transit links.
    Can be set permanently or with a timeout.
