Default bridge priority: 32768
ID: 32768.MAC. In VLAN 10: 32778.MAC
Cost (PVST):
	10Gbps -> 2
	1 Gbps -> 4
	100 Mbps -> 19
	10 Mbps -> 100
Root path cost: 
	From Root Bridge it will send BPDU with cost to Root Bridge as “0”. 
	When this BPDU receive by any other switch it will add its own port cost (according to the above mentioned value). 
	So if BPDU received by a Fast Ethernet port (100 Mbps) it will calculate path cost to root as 19 (0+19).
If same root path cost:
	1. Lowest Sending Bridge ID
	2. Lowest Port Priority (of sender)
	3. Lowest Interface number (of sender)

802.1d:
	Port states:
		Blocking, Listening, Learning, Forwarding
	Convergence:
		As a port is enabled, it must transition through the listening and learning states
			before graduating to the forwarding state. 
		STP allows two times the forwarding delay (15 seconds by default) for this transition to occur.
	Reconvergence:
		Approximately 50 seconds: 
			20 seconds for a BPDU to age out, 15 seconds for the listening state, and 15 seconds for the learning state.
		How:
			Switch, which detected failure, sends TCN out root port every 2 seconds until receives TCN ACK (configuration BPDU)
			Upstream switches (on the path too root) do the same 
			Switches in the different tree branches do nothing
			Root communicate topology change

STP and RSTP maintain the spanning tree differently. 
	Both use BPDUs to communicate the current tree topology. 
	With STP, the root bridge initiates these messages and they propagate throughout the tree every hello time interval. 
	With RSTP, a non-root bridge sends a BPDU with its current information every hello time interval, 
		regardless of receiving BPDUs from the root bridge.
		RSTP BPDUs act as keepalives: designated ports send Configuration BPDUs every hello time (default of 2 seconds)

RSTP:
	Port roles:
		Root
		Designated
		Alternate (for root port) - alternate path to the root bridge
			Blocks traffic while receiving superior BPDUs from a neighboring switch
		Backup (for designated port) - provides redundant path to a segment (on designated switches only)
			Blocks traffic while a more preferred port functions as the designated port
	Port states:
		Discarding (instead of blocking and listening)
		Learning
		Forwarding
	Convergence:
		Ethernet interfaces operating in full-duplex mode are considered point-to-point links. 
		Proposal-and-agreement handshake on point-to-point links instead of timers.
			1. Upstream bridge sends a proposal out of a designated port. 
				As a matter of fact, it just sets the proposal bit in outgoing configuration BPDUs.
			2. Downstream bridge receives the proposal, and if it agrees with the upstream port role, 
				it starts the process known as synchronization.
			3. Synchronization implies the downstream bridge blocking all non-edge designated ports, 
				prior to sending an agreement to the upstream bridge.
			4. Synchronization is needed to make sure there are no loops in the topology, 
				after the upstream bridge unblocks its designated port.
			5. If the downstream bridge does not agree with the proposal, 
				it will continues sending it’s own configuration BPDUs with the proposal bit set. 
				Eventually one of the bridges will accept the superior information and send an agreement.
		Nonedge-designated ports transition to the forwarding state once they receive explicit agreement.
		If a switch port does not receive BPDUs from the connecting device, it automatically assumes the role of an edge port.
		When receives configuration messages, changes to nonedge port.
		Nonedge-designated ports transition to the forwarding state only after receipt of an explicit agreement from the attached switch.
	Reconvergence:
		If a neighboring bridge receives no BPDU withing 3 times the hello interval (3 x 2 = 6 seconds), 
			connectivity to the neighbor is faulty
		When a point-to-point link fails, the alternate link can transition to the forwarding state without waiting 
			for any protocol timers to expire.
		RSTP uses additional features and functionality, such as edge port definitions and 
			rapid direct and indirect link failure detection and recovery.
			RSTP generate TCNs only when nonedge ports transition to the forwarding state. 
				Nonedge ports are typically defined as ports that interconnect switches.
			RSTP also provides improved network stability because it does not generate a TCN when a port
				transitions to the discarding state.
			When a TCN is necessary and is generated, the initiating device floods all designated ports as well as the root port.
			Unlike traditional STP, neighboring switches that are not in the path of the initiator to
				the root bridge do not need to wait for this information from the root bridge. As the changes
				propagate throughout the network, the switches flush the majority of the MAC addresses located in
				their bridge tables. The individual switches do not, however, flush MAC addresses learned from their
				locally-configured edge ports or MAC addresses learned from the port through which they received
				the TCN.

Protection:
	BPDU protection
		You can enable BPDU protection on switch interfaces where no BPDUs are expected. 
		If a protected interface receives BPDUs, the switch disables the interface and stops forwarding frames by 
		transitioning the interface to a blocking state.
	The loop protection feature protects against Layer 2 loops by preventing the non-designated ports from becoming designated ports.


MST
	MSTP extends Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) and Rapid Spanning Tree Protocol (RSTP) functionality by mapping multiple
	independent spanning-tree instances onto one physical topology. Each spanning-tree instance (STI) includes one or more
	VLANs.
	Unlike in STP and RSTP configurations, a port can belong to multiple VLANs and be dynamically blocked in one spanning-tree
	instance but forwarding in another.
	MSTP allows switches to be logically grouped into manageable clusters, known as multiple spanning tree (MST) regions. An
	MST region is a group of switches that share the same region name, revision level, and VLAN-to-instance mapping
	parameters.
	Each MST region supports up to 64 MSTIs. MSTP greatly reduces the number of bridge protocol data units (BPDUs) on a LAN
	by including the spanning tree information for all MSTIs in a single BPDU. MSTP encodes region information after the
	standard RSTP BPDU along with individual MSTI messages. The MSTI configuration messages convey spanning tree
	information for each instance.
	MSTP elects a regional root bridge for each MSTI. The regional root bridge is elected based on the configured bridge priority
	and calculates the spanning tree within its designated instance.
	The common spanning tree (CST), which interconnects all MST regions as well as STP devices not bound to a particular
	region, facilitates end-to-end paths within an MSTP environment. The CST facilitates backward compatibility with RSTP and
	STP.
	All MSTP environments contain a CST, which is used to interconnect individual MST regions and independent STP devices. All
	bridges in the CST elect a single root bridge. The root bridge is responsible for the path calculation for the CST. 
	...bridges outside of the MST region treat each MST region as a virtual bridge, regardless of the actual number of
	devices participating in each MST region.
	The common and internal spanning tree (CIST) is a single topology that connects all switches (RSTP and MSTP devices)
	through an active topology. The CIST includes a single spanning tree as calculated by RSTP together with the logical
	continuation of connectivity through MST regions. MSTP calculates the CIST and the CIST ensures connectivity between LANs
	and devices within a bridged network.
	Each MSTP region builds a spanning tree for the region, referred to as an internal spanning tree, based upon the remaining
	BPDU fields. For a switch to participate in a region’s internal spanning tree and use the information in this portion of the
	BPDU, it must be configured with the same configuration ID. Therefore, all switches in the same region must be configured
	with the same configuration ID. This approach to configuration ensures that when MSTP switches outside of the local MSTP
	region receive MSTP BPDUs, those switches will evaluate only the CST-related information.
	Once the internal spanning tree is built, by default, all traffic on all VLANs will follow it.
	Without the use of MSTI configuration methods, traffic for all VLANs within a region flows along the path of the internal
	spanning tree. To override this behavior and allow some VLANs to take one path through the region and let others take other
	paths (64 paths are possible for each region), you must configure MSTIs as part of the router MSTI configuration. The
	information carried in the MSTI configuration messages allows each switch to elect root bridges, root ports, designated
	ports, designated bridges, and so forth for each MSTI. Each MSTI will have one or more VLANs associated with them. One
	VLAN cannot be in more than one MSTI. Notice that the MSTI messages do not carry VLAN ID information. The VLAN-to-MSTI
	mappings are configured locally on each switch and each switch configuration should use the same mappings.